# DIWASA_Training
Welcome to the Introduction to the Analysis of IWMI’s Water Data Products through Digital Earth Africa course and Analysis of IWMI’s Water Data Products through Digital Earth Africa . The International Water Management Institute (IWMI) works with governments, farmers, water managers, development partners and businesses to solve water problems and scale up solutions. IWMI's Digital Innovations for a Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) initiative is committed to leveraging digital innovations such as remote sensing, cloud computing, open data initiatives and eventually, machine learning to enhance the accessibility of water data throughout the African continent. The primary emphasis of DIWASA lies in Water Accounting and Resilience applications which encompass a diverse range of products tailored to various scales. These DIWASA products will be progressively disseminated through Digital Earth Africa (DE Africa) and the Africa Geoportal by Esri. DIWASA has been developed in partnership with the Digital Earth Africa with the generous support of the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. This learning module has been co-developed by the team from Digital Earth Africa (Dr. Kenneth Mubea), and IWMI Ethiopia team (Dr. Abdulkarim Seid, Dr. Alemseged Tamiru Haile, Mulugeta Tadesse, and Ephrem Derso).

DIWASA_Training 1: https://learn.digitalearthafrica.org/courses/course-v1:IWMI+DIWASA1+2024_10/course/#block-v1:IWMI+DIWASA1+2024_10+type@chapter+block@8daa1201cc67479584fcae3b026335bf
This training introduces the Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) and shows you how to use the datasets in Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) in the Digital Earth Africa Sandbox, and data analysis platform. We will then walk through various exercises that will introduce the Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA). Session 1 includes an introduction to sandbox, Session 2 covers spatial temporal analysis of rainfall in Awash basin (Ethiopia), Session 3 covers evapotranspiration statistics in Awash basin (Ethiopia), and Session 4 covers soil moisture distrubition in an irrigation scheme.

DIWASA_Training 2: https://learn.digitalearthafrica.org/courses/course-v1:DEA+DIWASA_201_En+2025_11/course/
This session covers Analysis of IWMI’s Water Data Products through Digital Earth Africa and shows you how to use the datasets in Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) in the Digital Earth Africa Sandbox. This training has four sessions namely: Session 1 introduces how to connect to DE Africa GitHub and sandbox resources; Session 2 is on monitoring soil moisture in an irrigation scheme in Ethiopia, Session 3 is monitoring an irrigation scheme in Ghana, and Session 4 is on monitoring water balance in Lunsenfwa basin in Zambia. 


