Welcome to the Introduction to the Analysis of IWMI’s Water Data Products through Digital Earth Africa course. The International Water Management Institute (IWMI) works with governments, farmers, water managers, development partners and businesses to solve water problems and scale up solutions. IWMI's Digital Innovations for a Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) initiative is committed to leveraging digital innovations such as remote sensing, cloud computing, open data initiatives and eventually, machine learning to enhance the accessibility of water data throughout the African continent. The primary emphasis of DIWASA lies in Water Accounting and Resilience applications which encompass a diverse range of products tailored to various scales. These DIWASA products will be progressively disseminated through Digital Earth Africa (DE Africa) and the Africa Geoportal by Esri.
DIWASA has been developed in partnership with the Digital Earth Africa with the generous support of the Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. This learning module has been co-developed by the team from Digital Earth Africa (Dr. Kenneth Mubea), and IWMI Ethiopia team (Dr. Abdulkarim Seid, Dr. Alemseged Tamiru Haile, Mulugeta Tadesse, and Ephrem Derso). 

This session introduces the Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) and shows you how to use the datasets in Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA) in the Digital Earth Africa Sandbox, and data analysis platform. We will then walk through various exercises that will introduce the Digital Innovations for Water Secure Africa (DIWASA).
